
beginning it careers for humans
-------------------------------

Tue March 10, 2009

![](/blog/image.axd?picture=2009%2f3%2fdirectional-sign2.jpg)A friend
recently asked my advice on getting started in IT and how to learn more
about it. Being the super generous, ever wise person that I am, I told
him to take a flying leap.. just kidding.

It made me think because I wasn't sure how to advise him about figuring
out what area of IT he might find most interesting. With current market
conditions, jobs aren't jumping up and grabbing you but IT has remained
better than others. It's probably not as easy for beginners although now
is a good time to start learning. You can check
[monster.com](http://monster.com), [dice.com](http://dice.com), or even
[craigslist.org](http://craigslist.org) to find IT job postings to see
what is going on in the job market. BUT before you do that, you should
have an idea of what IT field you are interested in, and the key terms
to use in searching for that shiny, new IT job.

**Pick your flavor**

There are quite a few different areas within IT, and Ill name a few.
Readers, feel free to comment on any I missed or add details you might
give to a friend.

Hardware

    If you like building and putting things together, this might be a
good area for you. It's an engineering discipline, but is often combined
with the resposiblities of purchasing and tracking assets.

Networking

    This area involves the wiring and connection issues involved in
computers talking to each other. It can be for office networks, or
meeting communication needs of a high traffic website. It's often rolled
up in a hardware position, but both could turn into a high end
specialist.

Help Desk / Support

    This is usually helping people solve their problems.  Could be on
the phone or in person, but you really need people skills and patience
for this field.  A few different paths for this might be internal help
desk for a company, help desk for other companies, or contractor who
supports local businesses.

Software Testing

    If you like to mess around with programs and figure out how to break
things, you'll probably do great and have fun in this area.

Software Development

    It's what we do. It's mainly divided into two areas:
Internet/websites, Installed programs (like Mircrosoft Word ot some
other programs.) Problem solving is a must, but so is creativity.

Database Development or Management

    The art of managing and manipulating data can be consider it's own
special discipline; especially when it comes to dealing with very large
or high volumne databases. It's not for everyone, and the only way to
figure it out is to try it. Start learning programming and pick projects
that use databases; that will introduce you to it. After that, you'd
need to read topics specific to database development or management.

Project Management

    Organizational skills. After that it's a mix of different things,
and sometimes you might be asked to fill other roles (like Help Desk or
hardware)

Product Analysis

    This is making the business rules for software. People skills,
creativity, and some knowledge of software will serve you well.

There's a variety of combinations and things are always changing. With
so many different tools, languages, and technologies, I couldn't list
nearly enough in a reasonable amount of space. Pick which area you like,
then start learning about the specific technologies in that area.

It's important to be a good problem solver, be comfortable learning, and
have good communication skills. After that, there's a lot to say for
experience and determination.

**Add your mix-ins**

So how do you get started? Well a degree certainly helps and so do
professional certifications, but I'd suggest trying some of these before
committing. There are plenty of entry level tutorials online. Use a
search engine to find them by searching for "tutorial " and your keyword
like "website programming". If you're not already aware, there are many
different programming languages so start with a common, [object-oriented
language](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object_oriented) if you are
thinking of going into development. We use
[C\#](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C_Sharp_(programming_language)) and
[Ruby](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ruby) a lot.
[Java](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java) is another good choice.

Even if you don't find a free course or podcast, you should look for an
inexpensive introductory class. You don't want to commit a lot of money
until you know what you are getting into. I recommend online sources
because it is easier to fit into your schedule.

Once you've got a good idea what you are interested in, talk to friends
if you know anyone in the industry. Try local user groups or online
groups. [AZGroups](http://azgroups.org/) is a local .Net User group with
friendly, helpful people. I use [Google Groups](http://azgroups.org/)
quite a bit myself for discussing IT topics, and helping people find
answers when I can. ([Email](/contact/mailform.ashx) me if you want
suggestions for groups in the Phoenix area.)

If you are truly committed (and being committed to a mental health
institution is a requirement for some IT jobs), then go get the training
and basic skills you need. There's no reason to spend a lot either. Look
at community colleges or certification programs. Being a good problem
solver, learning fast, and communicating well is more important that a
degree or certificate. Those just show your commitment and some
presumptive, basic level of ability.

**Lets roll**

The next step is landing that first job. As with any job, networking
helps a lot. Try [LinkedIn.com](http://www.linkedin.com/), which is a
professional social networking site. Go back to those friends and user
groups you talked to. Check those jobs sites I listed above, and search
for others. There are many more than the ones I listed. Even though I'm
a seasoned professional, I've been known to go door-to-door in search of
work. (There's a good story there which maybe I'll tell later.) You do
what it takes, and it usually works out. Especially if you are
passionate about your choice.

**Blast off**

After you've gotten some experience built up, you'll find it easier to
pick where you want to go with it. Let's say you become a website
programmer and you love cars. Perhaps you build a website focused on
small track car racing and earn money selling ads. You'll love it and it
pays the bills. Or maybe you land a programming job with an autoparts
retailer, or something else related to your passion. Who knows. What I
do know is things work out best when you stick to what you like; and the
best ideas are ones you would love yourself. Passion is the key to
happiness in any career, and is especially true in IT. 

-j
