
death march survival guide
--------------------------

Tue August 04, 2009

[![deathmarch](http://computeristsolutions.com/blog/image.axd?picture=deathmarch_thumb.jpg "deathmarch")](http://computeristsolutions.com/blog/image.axd?picture=deathmarch.jpg)  
Having recently been through another, I thought it might be helpful to
post a few tips on surviving a death march on a software project. If you
haven’t heard the term before, it’s basically an insane working pace
trying to make impossible deadlines. There are often various humorous
aspects as well like changing requirements.

  It’s best to avoid the Death March. Good project planning and
processes will normally help you prevent that, but maybe not always.
Here’s some ideas on dealing with it when you have to.

**Tip 1: Whistle while you work**

  I don’t mean literally, but something to take the edge off during the
day. Joke around with co-workers, listen to music, take a 5-15 minute
break every 90 minutes. Continually stressing yourself out will drain
your moral and productivity.

**Tip 2: Check your identity**

  Do you identify yourself by your job? That’s a problem both in a death
march and even when your not. I can be a bit of a workaholic by some
standards, but I know it’s not all I am. If you feel like that’s
basically who you are and the project/job isn’t going well, you could be
beating yourself up emotionally.

**Tip 3: Easy wins**

  I find it helpful to complete some easy wins from time to time during
each week. Stuff like short, simple features or bug fixes. When things
are going poorly, it helps to have some feeling of progress or the
situation may feel worse than it really is.

**Tip 4: Now for something completely different**

  If you are driven to do something, like me, then do something
different. Don’t get burned out; write some code for a personal idea or
utility or an open source project. Read. I like reading so this is an
easy call for me although I don’t read as much as I would like. Don’t
read work related stuff though as that uses the brain in the same way as
your work.

**Tip 5: Exercise**

  Exercise is a great way to release stress and revive yourself mentally
and emotionally.  It has to be something strenuous though.  If you’re
not trying, it’s not helping. I’d also recommend not over doing it
though. Since you are already in a stressed condition, you are likely to
be more prone to injury. Limiting the time is my favorite way to prevent
over-exercising.

**Tip 5: Looking forward**

  Plan something for after the project is over. This forces you to think
of something different for a while and something to look forward to.
Hope is a powerful thing and lack of it just makes any current stress
seem much worse.

**Tip 6: It’s all over but the crying**

  Knowing when it’s just not going to work can be a little hard, and
then even harder when you know but management doesn’t think so. Express
your thoughts to the right people but don’t whine. Then put in an
healthy effort even if your warning isn’t heeded. At the end of it, you
will know you made your case and gave it your best.

**Wrap Up**

  Feel free to add your own tips in the comments. Everyone has their own
experience, and will find some things work better for them than others.

-j
