
free vip ticket
---------------

Mon May 11, 2009

I'm talking about the Scott Guthrie, Glen Block, and Jamie Rodriguez
event in Phoenix on May 26. ([info
here](http://scottgu2009.eventbrite.com/)) All the free general
adminission tickets with lunch are gone. Some free admission with the
possibility of lunch if there's any left are still available while I
write this. There are VIP seats left. They are \$35 and inlcude front
seats, internet, and power access; but you could get one for free.
Computerist Solutions bought an extra to give out.

We don't want anything for it, just convince us you should get it. We
couldn't decide on how to use it to promote the event. Really it's not a
HUGE prize, but it will be a nice seat at a really good event.

Is this your first AZGroups event, first Gu event, can't normally make
it to events/meetings? Tell us. Tell us why you are excited, or how you
helped promote it. Or even that you didn't get a free ticket and can't
afford the VIP tickets. Be honest. If you can't make it, please don't
enter. We really want someone to take advantage and enjoy the
presentations.

I'll post the deadline later, but don't take too long because we want to
announce the lucky stiff at least a few days before hand. Only
[emails](http://computeristsolutions.com/contact/mailform.ashx) and
comments to this post will be considered; no calls about this please.

Good Luck!

<span style="font-weight: bold">UPDATE:</span> One person has said they
had a problem with the contact form. Please let me know if you have a
problem using it. This is the
[link](http://computeristsolutions.com/contact/mailform.ashx) you should
use. If it doesn't work, just send an email to contact \[at\]
computeristsolutions \[dot\] com.

-j
