
leisure reading for enhanced performance
----------------------------------------

Tue March 17, 2009

![](/blog/image.axd?picture=2009%2f3%2fleisureReading.JPG)I read a fair
amount even if not as much as I'd like nor all of the books I'd like to
read. A lot of what I read are blogs and online articles related to
technology. I currently have 5 books on my reading list. All of them are
technical books in PDF form. While its very important for a computerist
to keep up to speed with technology, it's also important to keep the
creative juices flowing in the brain.

In January, I picked up a kids book and read it. I read a majority of it
one weekend and didn't do any work or computer reading that weekend. The
following week, I felt a little more refreshed. Perhaps it was getting a
little extra sleep or taking a real break from computerist material, but
I'm sure reading helps.

I'm a big believer in reading being good for you. I mean exercise is
good for your body, right? Then why not exercise your brain. Something
about reading stimulates your brain, and reading different material
stimulates different areas of your brain. When I'm reading tech
material, I'm focused on understanding all the ideas being conveyed.
When I read for leisure, I don't have to focus on thinking quite so
much.

We've all heard how exercise helps both your physical and your mental
condition. Leisure reading helps your stress levels and creative powers.
Unless your like me with unlimited creative power, you should take a
break and read a book just for fun.

It important to keep up your creative thinking as a developer. Leisure
reading is a good way to do that, and enhance your job performance.
Besides, many overworked geeks need a little break sometimes. We
encourage it among our team. Your reading list should be a dash of
technical and a pinch of non-technical material.

-j
