
nupack is really cool
---------------------

Thu October 07, 2010

Fastest way to see what NuPack is, is to watch [this intro
vid](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6FKJ2Au27gQ). You can also read some
of Hanselman’s
[post](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/IntroducingNuPackPackageManagementForNETAnotherPieceOfTheWebStack.aspx).

It’s a .net based package management system, which works right within
VS. In fact, I think its really handy to be able to add and install a
reference on a project.

I wasn’t sure what to make of it at first, having first heard of Nu, the
Ruby Gems based .Net package manager. I liked that approach because I
like the gems system, but it definitely was not a smooth experience for
a typical VS dev environment. NuPack really does streamline things.

However, it’s not complete nor without drawbacks. Most obviously, the
available package library seems good but will probably lack that more
obscure lib you may be looking for.

I have a personal philosophy of having everything you need for a project
within its source repository. As such, I’ll be investigating where the
installed packages are placed. I’d like to know what is the experience
for checking out a project and attempting to build if you don’t have
NuPack installed.

Also, I got this dark sense of hesitation and mental background music
([link](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-bzWSJG93P8)) at first. MS is
limited by legalities. We’re going to have to understand they have to
play by rules that OSS projects don’t have in terms of corporate
responsibilities. I also didn’t like that limited openness they had.
This was kinda out of the blue, and duplicated effort currently being
done by the community.

DevDiv isn’t sinister, but bureaucracy tends to impose incompetence and
malevolence on its subjects. So time will tell which will win.
[ScottGu](http://twitter.com/scottgu) has a pretty good track record
though, and this will help fill a gap in the .Net dev environment.

**Update:** Since I wrote this, its been renamed to
[NuGet](http://nuget.codeplex.com/).
