
scott guthrie azgroups 2012
---------------------------

Fri June 08, 2012

[Scott Guthrie](https://twitter.com/#!/scottgu) is back again for 2012.
June 19th 2012 at the Scottsdale Center for the Arts. It's the 9th
annual Gu event in the Phx area. If you don't have a seat yet, you might
be out of luck. But go [here to
try](http://azgroups.eventday.com/register?ticketType=ea0d277c-f9f0-4215-b7a3-2bf4ec480bf6).

[Scott Cate](https://twitter.com/#!/scottcate) has been doing this every
year since 2004, and it's well worth attending. Even if you don't go to
other local .Net user group events, you should make this one. This year,
Gu is bring [Hanselman](https://twitter.com/#!/shanselman) back. I
wanted to say he's bringing sexy back, but, well.. Let's go with he's
"bringing funny back." :) Also, [Brady
Gaster](https://twitter.com/#!/bradygaster) will be here. Brady used to
live here and participate in the user group. I think he was the first
person I saw speak at the user group way back when. Also a good speaker.
This is gonna be good.

Topics this here include Azure, ASP.Net, SignalR, and Web API. Also, Gu
just goes off on his own thing and wherever the discussion leads. You
just don't know where it will go.

Because I want this to keep going every year, I want to mention this
years sponsors: Axosoft, Micfosoft Azure, Microsoft Evangelism, IO.com,
DiscountASP.net, PluralSight, neudesic, Robert Half Consulting, Telerik,
Event Day, LoopLogic. Several of these are local companies, and a couple
are run by user group members. People who you can rub shoulders with at
this event and other user group events.
