
stack of the future: trello
---------------------------

Fri January 20, 2012

[This](http://blog.fogcreek.com/the-trello-tech-stack/) article from Fog
Creek Software describes the development stack they used to create
Trello. You can summarize it like this: Javascript.

**Future is Now**

I think this represents something that will become more and more common.
Javascript throughout, or at least a lot of client-side work with
Javascript and HTML5. Look, Gmail has been around how long? It's a
Javascript based app, and most people I know love it. I certainly do. If
you've been developing more than a few years, you'd never have guessed
things like Google Docs or Trello would have been possible even just 8
years ago.

**Oh MongoDB**

I think I may have mentioned before how much I like MongoDB. It's a nice
balance of features, and more of the middle-ground in the NoSQL field.
The only others I can think of similar, are (formerly) CouchDB and
RavenDB. Plenty of MongoDB info out there; read [Karl
Sequin](http://openmymind.net/) for a good source on MongoDB.

**Really Redis**

I really need to try Redis; seems to address a good space in the NoSQL
world. Session info, message queing, maybe caching if you want an
alternative to MemCache.

**Don't Doubt Me**

Ok, that's a little strong but think about it. Javascript is a language
you can use both on the client and server, has good support on desktop
and mobile devices, and has a wide variety of great libraries. Plus
there's CoffeeScript.

I think Javascript, along with HTML5, is going to be a part of a lot of
cool software soon and for a while. I've been thinking about what a good
web stack might look like in the coming years. I'd say Trello has a lot
of that. I might also look at Ruby or Python on the server, and - yes -
C\# still too. Although, I think Mono will be interesting too, because
with it you can build apps to run on linux, Mac, iPhone, and Android in
addition to Windows. The future of programming looks really fun!
