
subtext on godaddy
------------------

Fri February 27, 2009

 

[![](/blog/image.axd?picture=2009%2f2%2fEngine.jpg)](http://www.dotnetblogengine.net/ "BlogEngine.Net")First
off, [BlogEngine.net](http://www.dotnetblogengine.net/ "BlogEngine.Net")
is a fine package.  Nothing against it, but I had my reasons for wanting
to use [SubText](http://www.subtextproject.com/ "SubText"). (I know
contributors to the project) So when we first discussed adding the blog,
I pushed for Subtext. I installed it on the GoDaddy shared hosting
account we use and tweaked around.  It broke during setup in trying to
create some temp file it needed, I think, for creating the database
schema.

I even opened a ticket with GoDaddy and played with permissions on the
account. Unfortunately I wasn't able to get it working. Perhaps I could
have figured it out, but it was better to move on. It was better to not
waste time that could be used for client work; same reason we didn't
write our own blog engine or hack up another open source engine.

Subtext supports medium trust; I verified it with a couple of the
developers. So the problem is likely on the restrictive rules enforced
by GoDaddy. They're just not going to change those rules for little ol'
us either so BlogEngine.Net it is. And a fine blog it is.

Now if I was really daring (and had more time) I'd get a copy of [Ken
Egozi's](http://www.kenegozi.com/blog/ "Ken Egozi Blog") blog engine and
tweak it.  Apparently he plans to publish the source when he gets time. 
I'd recommend looking into it if your looking for a blog engine. It's
based on [Castle
MonoRail](http://www.castleproject.org/ "Castle Project") and other
goodness.

-j
