
technical debt
--------------

Wed October 14, 2009

In this
[post](http://martinfowler.com/bliki/TechnicalDebtQuadrant.html), the
venerable Martin Fowler expounds upon his definition of a technical debt
in contrast to Uncle Bob’s
[definition](http://blog.objectmentor.com/articles/2009/09/22/a-mess-is-not-a-technical-debt). 
Not that they are completely different, but that Uncle Bob views an
ignorant mess as not qualifying as a technical debt. Martin considers a
mess also a debt, and I agree.

![](http://www.sitecrafting.com/images/blog/cb74402fa30e2686.jpg)

In fact most all development has a certain debt aspect in terms of the
metaphor for required maintenance later on. The point of good design and
clean code is to empower productivity and easier maintenance. Even a
non-decision on design, such a mess, is still a decision. You still have
to maintain what was done.

I’m certainly not the sage of good design & patterns like Uncle Bob or
Martin Fowler. I do strongly advocate principles for clean code and
easier maintenance. That’s why I advocate Test Driven Design and Object
Oriented design patterns. It tends to make your code evolve in a
direction that is clean and maintainable. It does make you more
productive because you are getting feedback on your decisions much
quicker than, say, Waterfall style development does.

A lot of what is said in the internets is subjective. What I mean by
clean code may be slightly different than what people like Martin or
Uncle Bob mean. (although I like to think I write some rather poetically
readable, clean code) It’s still subjective. The practices you choose
have a lot to do with how clean it will work out, so choosing the right
practices – and values for that matter – is highly important. It makes a
difference now and an even bigger difference later when you have to
maintain your code. ..or that axe murderer psycho programmer who knows
where you live has to maintain your code. That’s when you REALLY want to
have clean code with low technical debt!
